# Passphraser Word List
The primary purpose of this word list is for use by the Passphraser command-line application (see [cli](https://github.com/80columns/passphraser-cli) and [scripts](https://github.com/80columns/passphraser-scripts)), in order to generate passwords which are both secure and memorable. Its goal is not to be a comprehensive list of all American English words. To that end, words which are generally considered obscene and words which are generally used to disrespect people based on their physical or mental attributes should not be present. Anyone who uses Passphraser to generate a password should have a positive experience.

In addition, all words in this word list must be at least 5 characters in length and at most 19 characters in length. This is to ensure that all passwords generated by Passphraser are at least 21 characters in length (3 5-character words -> 15 characters, 2 special characters, and 4 numerical digits) and at most 63 characters in length (3 19-character words -> 57 characters, 2 special characters, and 4 numerical digits).

This list, in its original form, is a subset of the alphabetic words at https://github.com/dwyl/english-words/blob/master/words_alpha.txt. The license has been kept the same by using "The Unlicense". This is published for public domain use.

In its original form, this list contains ~181k words. These were cross-referenced with several American English dictionaries to ensure that they are legitimate words. Many words contained in the list from which this list was sourced are not actually English words.

## Contributing
If you have a word or words you would like to add to this list, feel free to make a pull request! Any additions which contribute to the purpose of this word list are welcome. Separately, if you believe that there are words in this word list which should not be present, feel free to open an issue and it will be addressed.

## Copyright
The ability to copyright a list of words has been the subject of some discussion online - see [Copyrightablity of word lists](https://opensource.stackexchange.com/questions/10670/copyrightablity-of-word-lists) and [Are word lists sufficiently original to be copyrighted?](https://sts10.github.io/2023/05/04/copyrighting-word-lists.html). The answer depends on the country you live in. The creator of this list resides in and is a citizen of the United States.

In 1991, the US Supreme Court ruled in the case [Feist Publications, Inc., v. Rural Telephone Service Co.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feist_Publications,_Inc.,_v._Rural_Telephone_Service_Co.) that copyright can apply only to the creative aspects of a collection. In the [majority opinion](https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/499/340/) written by Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, she stated:

> Where the compilation author adds no written expression, but rather lets the facts speak for themselves, the expressive element is more elusive. The only conceivable expression is the manner in which the compiler has selected and arranged the facts. Thus, if the selection and arrangement are original, these elements of the work are eligible for copyright protection. See Patry, Copyright in Compilations of Facts (or Why the "White Pages" Are Not Copyrightable), 12 Com. & Law 37, 64 (Dec.1990) (hereinafter Patry). No matter how original the format, however, the facts themselves do not become original through association. See Patterson & Joyce 776.
>
> This inevitably means that the copyright in a factual compilation is thin. Notwithstanding a valid copyright, a subsequent compiler remains free to use the facts contained in another's publication to aid in preparing a competing work, so long as the competing work does not feature the same selection and arrangement. As one commentator explains it:
>
> "[N]o matter how much original authorship the work displays, the facts and ideas it exposes are free for the taking. . . . [T]he very same facts and ideas may be divorced from the context imposed by the author, and restated or reshuffled by second comers, even if the author was the first to discover the facts or to propose the ideas."

The creator of the Passphraser word list is not a lawyer, but their understanding of the ruling's implication is that simply replicating a list of words 1:1 from entries in a copyrighted dictionary would be a copyright violation. Thus the list in this repository has been sourced from another public-domain list which was itself compiled from multiple freely-available sources online. Several lawyers were also consulted before publishing the list in this repository in order to ensure that no copyright violation was being performed.

If you would like to use the words from this word list, you are free to do so. You can read more about the license at [https://unlicense.org/](https://unlicense.org/).

## Questions
Any questions not answered in this README can be sent to pdf _at_ 80columns.com
